docs/index.md, before:

# SQL Learning Materials

> [!SUCCESS]
>
> SQL scripts that demonstrate various features and concepts.

This project contains a bunch of SQL learning materials aimed at different levels of experience and covering a variety of topics. It focuses on just writing `SELECT` statements so there will be very few resources for anything else.

## Acknowledgements

The data used in this project is from a couple of sources.

The SQL Server instance has the ubiquitous _AdventureWorks_ databases (the transactional one and the analytical one), which are available from various Microsoft pages:

- [https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/samples/adventureworks-install-configure](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/samples/adventureworks-install-configure)
- [https://github.com/Microsoft/sql-server-samples/releases/download/adventureworks](https://github.com/Microsoft/sql-server-samples/releases/download/adventureworks)

The PostgreSQL instance has the similarly ubiquitous _Sakila_ database, which is available from the following GitHub repo:

- [https://github.com/jOOQ/sakila/](https://github.com/jOOQ/sakila/)

All credit for the data goes to the respective owners, and these sources should be consulted for any documentation you need around the data.

## Contents

This project has a few different series:

- [From Excel to SQL](from-excel-to-sql/from-excel-to-sql.md), which is aimed at Excel users who want to learn SQL
- [Everything about joins](everything-about-joins/everything-about-joins.md), which is a comprehensive guide to SQL joins
- [Challenging SQL questions](challenging-sql-problems/challenging-sql-problems.md), which are SQL questions that really test your skills

Commit message:

docs: initial SQL setup guide page

docs/index.md, after:

# SQL Learning Materials

> [!SUCCESS]
>
> SQL scripts that demonstrate various features and concepts.

This project contains a bunch of SQL learning materials aimed at different levels of experience and covering a variety of topics. It focuses on just writing `SELECT` statements so there will be very few resources for anything else.

## Acknowledgements

The data used in this project is from a couple of sources.

The SQL Server instance has the ubiquitous _AdventureWorks_ databases (the transactional one and the analytical one), which are available from various Microsoft pages:

- [https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/samples/adventureworks-install-configure](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/samples/adventureworks-install-configure)
- [https://github.com/Microsoft/sql-server-samples/releases/download/adventureworks](https://github.com/Microsoft/sql-server-samples/releases/download/adventureworks)

The PostgreSQL instance has the similarly ubiquitous _Sakila_ database, which is available from the following GitHub repo:

- [https://github.com/jOOQ/sakila/](https://github.com/jOOQ/sakila/)

All credit for the data goes to the respective owners, and these sources should be consulted for any documentation you need around the data.

## Contents

This project has a few different series:

- [Ultimate SQL Setup Guide](ultimate-sql-setup-guide/ultimate-sql-setup-guide.md), which gets you up and running with SQL
- [From Excel to SQL](from-excel-to-sql/from-excel-to-sql.md), which is aimed at Excel users who want to learn SQL
- [Everything about joins](everything-about-joins/everything-about-joins.md), which is a comprehensive guide to SQL joins
- [Challenging SQL questions](challenging-sql-problems/challenging-sql-problems.md), which are SQL questions that really test your skills
